- [Instructor] In our learning environment,
we only have a single instance
of each of our services up and running,
so Ribbon's load balancing doesn't make a lot of sense.
But seldom, if ever, in a cloud environment,
We will run single instances.
In cases where we don't have
default load balancers involved,
Ribbon provides us a way to integrate
a software load balancer to our web service calls.
Let's jump back over here to our ID
and create a new module.
We'll use Spring initializer once again,
use the same group name.
And in this case, we're going to call this
a room reservation service,
Java 11.
And what this room reservation service is going to be
is it's going to represent a business service in our system
that integrates multiple domains.
So the only dependency that we're going to need on this is Web,
however since we want to use Ribbon,
we're going to go down here to routing and select Ribbon,
and we also want to do Discovery Client.
Accept the rest of the defaults
and we'll let Maven do its thing.
Okay, so once Maven's done all of its importing,
open up the room reservation service.
Let's go to source, main, resources to start with
and open up our application.properties file.
Now we're going to give our application a name
and in this case, we're putting it
in the application.properties instead of a boot strap.
Now we could have written configuration for this,
if we wanted to, and run this all through a boot strap,
but kind of we've already seen that,
so it doesn't really add any value.
So we'll just set our Spring application name
to room reservation services.
We're going to execute this at port 8080,
and we're going to be explicit about that.
The last property we need to add is Eureka client,
service URL, and we're going to set the default zone here,
and that is going to be equal to http://localhost
:8761
/eureka.
And those are the properties that we need to set.
So let's now go to source main Java,
open up our root package, and our application class.
We are going to enable the discovery client,
we're also going to create a bean.
Now this is going to be something we're going to do temporarily
just to get past some initial configuration here.
But we're going to use the load balanced annotation
on this bean, and what load balance does
is its going to tell Ribbon to use this
across a load balancing routine.
All right, so we are going to create an instance
of REST template, simply call it that.
And it will return a new REST template.
This is probably not the best way to create one
but again, this is demo purposes
and this should be just fine.
Now we also need to create a domain object
and that domain object that we are going to create
is going to be called a room reservation.
So a room reservation is going to be
a very simple data bag or a DTO.
So let me put a few values in here.
All right, so now that we have all of our attributes
that we need for our room reservation,
we're going to set a getter and setter
for each of those elements
and that's all we need with that class.
Now, we're going to make a call to our room itself
to our room services itself in order to do this,
so we need to create a Java class that represents that.
So we will create a room entity.
And essentially, we're going to copy all of the attributes
from our data layer without all of the annotations.
Once again, getters and setters
and that class is done.
So now we are going to create our web service
and we'll create a room reservation web service
@REST controller,
@request mapping,
and we're going to respond,
and a little bit different this time,
we're going to do room-reservations,
just to kind of keep things really clear,
what's what, we'll make that a little bit more detailed,
and put that hyphen in there.
So now, we need an instance of our REST template.
And we will inject that in our constructor.
And then now we are going to set a get mapping
and we will get a list of our room reservation objects.
And for right now, we will return null,
we will come back to that momentarily.
We're going to create a method
that returns a list of rooms
called getAllRooms
and getAllRooms is going to set a response entity
of a list of room objects,
and this is how you have to do this with REST template.
We get returns a list, and you want to use the exchange,
so we're going to set this to a room response
and that's going to be equal to this .getrestTemplate
.exchange.
Now we need a URL, so what URL can we use?
Well in this case, we are going to use a URL
that consumes Eureka.
So, the room services is the actual name of the element
from Eureka itself.
Notice we're not putting in a real URL for our service.
So Eureka's going to handle that
and it's going to get aspected in.
This is a get call with null and we need to return
a new parameterized type reference of this room.
And we will have an empty implementation of that,
sorry I rolled off screen there.
And, import our http method on the get.
Okay.
So now I can return our room response .getBody.
And that should be a list of room elements.
So finally, let's jump back up
to our room reservation method here.
All right, so we're going to go ahead
and get rid of this null marker now.
We're going to create a list of rooms
calling our getAllRooms function.
And we'll go ahead and create a list
of room reservations as well.
And I'll just create that as an empty array list.
Now we need to iterate over our rooms.
We'll do that via Lambda.
And what we're going to do is we're going to create
a new room reservation,
and then we will populate that room reservation
based on the room data that we have.
So if we look at what we can set,
we can set a room number,
and then we can set a room name,
and then we can set a room ID.
All right, so that's all the data
that we are going to set on our room reservation.
So let's add that to our room reservations list
and then, all we need to do now is return that data
and we will start up our application here.
All right, so now let's jump over to our web browser.
And we'll see indeed our room reservation service
is still up and running.
Everything looks good there,
so let's open up a local host 8080
on room reservations, and now we get a payload of data back.
Obviously we haven't populated this entire data structure
but the data that we have, we've populated,
which is really good 'cause this gets us moving forward
with getting populated data.
But we've done this using a load balancer,
so this is really where the power of all of this comes from.
As we move in next, I'm going to show you
an even easier way to consume this data.